# HandPan
I went home over break and found my step brother playing the handpan, a metallic instrument with several tones (A, C, D, E, F, G, A) that can be heard when you strike the instrument with your hand. I wanted to incorporate this into my project, so I recorded twenty six different sounds of him playing. 
I then wrote a program that maps each of the sounds to the twenty six letters of the alphabet, which are “played” as the program analyzes a file of text. For example, within the text file alice.txt (the first chapter of Lewis Carol’s Alice in Wonderland), every time it sees the letter “e” the program will play a handpan sound that has been designated as “e”’s sound. I thought this would be a cool mapping because the English language has its own structure of letter frequency (e being the most frequent on average) and I wondered if the structure would create some kind of harmony when each letter was mapped to a sound. 
I wrote the program so that there are twenty six unique sound letter mappings. Every time the program is run it uses one of these mappings, and the text file provides the information for how frequently each sound is played. In order to follow the grammar and conventions of sentences better, for example a comma denoting a pause, I also added code so that when the program sees a punctuation mark it has a 25% chance of pausing for 140 milliseconds and a 5% chance of pausing for 420 milliseconds. These numbers were chosen because they are 1x and 3x the default time (140 milliseconds) between each note being played by the program, respectively. I also tested out different pause lengths and 140/420 milliseconds sounded the most natural to me. (I clearly acknowledge that I shaped the code to my own personal aesthetics)
Although its sound is somewhat clunky because I didn’t get the lengths of all the recordings exactly even, it does sometimes sound like a “real” handpan solo my step-brother would play. Using different text files (I also tried “Mary had a Little Lamb” and Robert Frost’s “Miles”) and a sound letter mapping, you never know quite what you’re going to get when you run the program, and that’s pretty cool to me. The audio files that I attached are examples of the program’s output.

Handpan Land

Directions: 
Place the text you want to play into a text file, e.g. alice.txt
Move this text file into the program’s src directory
Change the name of the file being played in the main function to that of your text file
Run the program

That said, the program still sounds clunky, as all the sounds I recorded were not entirely even in length. 
The designation is as follows. First, the character the program is reading is converted to an uppercase integer, by unicode’s standards. If the character was a letter, a random predefined offset value is added to the integer value. The sound file, which corresponds to the letter is then selected within a directory by the value of this addition. The mapping is therefore randomized so that the sound that each letter corresponds to is unique at most 26 times if the program were run 26 times in a row. (it can only select a random sound from 26 handpan sounds in the directory) If the character wasn’t a letter, I an element of randomness in the program simulates silence or rests. In this situation, when the program reads a non-letter character such as a period or comma, it will pause with a 25% probability for 140 milliseconds and with a 5% probability for 420 milliseconds. These numbers were chosen because the space between notes being played by the program is 140 milliseconds and the rest values are 1x and 3x its value. They also sounded the most natural while playing around with possible values of rest. 
The frequency of each letter in the text file, and therefore of the sounds mapped to them, is kept track of and printed at the end of the program. For maryLamb.txt, which contains the nursery rhyme “Mary had a Little Lamb”, the number of e’s played is 45, a’s 38, b’s 7, t’s 35, etc. 

